(upbeat music)
- Introducing, this is Scott.
Scott makes music as a blog,
and Scott, tell us about yourself.
(laughs)
That's a big question.
I guess, you know, I've been making music under that moniker
for about 12 years, and...
I guess I think of it as break core,
but it's maybe not hard and heavy enough
for some people to meet that categorization,
so it sort of gets lumped with IDM,
maybe even though I don't really think of it as that.
And I've seen the drill and base tag attached to that a lot,
which I don't think is even a valid tag of at all.
- I don't know what that means.
- Yeah, it doesn't mean anything, so.
Yeah, I've just been doing that for a long time.
Now it seems like, and...
I've had some great experiences along the way
with doing that, and...
Pretty satisfied with my output so far,
but always looking to improve and try new things,
learn new stuff, and...
I'm right on the edge of starting to transform my sound
in a pretty significant way, in my opinion, significant,
but...
What's significant about that change?
I'm curious, like...
Abandoning the step sequencer software approach
and bringing in a different compositional method
with the use of the title cycles software.
- So what were you using before title the sequence?
- FL Studio.
- Okay, that's all I got.
- So for a long time, it was basically...
I didn't get into synthesizers until a few years ago,
it was more into samples and seeing what could be done
with samples exclusively, so...
It was basically just FL Studio and Soundforge.
- Yeah, I remember one of those first introduced to your stuff.
You're doing everything like destructive editing, right?
Like within Soundforge, you'd bounce stuff out
and then just do destructive editing
with the Soundforge, that's pretty cool.
You still go that route after you render
what you're working on?
- Yeah, I mean, Soundforge is great
for just very rapidly editing things down
into usable pieces and after a while,
I got into audio mulch too, so that's kind of...
- Nice, yeah.
- Shapes things in different ways that aren't so static
or whatever, but...
I think I kind of reached the conclusion
of the entirely sample-based approach,
at least for myself, and started to get interested
in synthesizers, which I'd always kind of,
for some reason, skewed that,
but I would use samples of other people's synthesizers,
which is kind of dumb or whatever,
but I don't know, I got interested in that,
and then that kind of segued into,
do I want to explore this modular thing that's happening?
And I took the plunge on that, very glad I did.
I've actually learned a lot more about,
just regular synthesizers like hardware stuff
from using modular.
- Yeah, I've had that experience too.
- Yeah, it's really opened it up for me,
made it a lot more,
I can get a lot more utility out of things
that are what I thought kind of vanilla.
You can actually, if you really get in there
and dig with the parameters,
you can do more stuff with simpler items,
but that kind of quickly was followed
with my introduction to the title Cycles software,
and so now I'm sort of at this point
where utilizing those two things,
totally abandoning the step sequencing linear,
like visual kind of creating music with,
doing that new approach has been really exciting for me,
and it's really flexible
and it's easy to get to very complex results
in a short span of time
versus plotting out every single, you know,
discrete event.
- So could you explain how you integrate the two,
the modular and the title,
and how are you using them sort of together?
- So title is a pretty new development,
it's open source, I believe that's the word
you wanna use for it, I'm not real,
that's not my world,
I'm only dealing with this thing
because it's an interesting tool to me.
I'm not a programmer, I'm not, you know,
that good with computers in general, I wouldn't say,
but my introduction to that was just
a sample based manipulation thing,
so it plays patterns, you can use samples
and pattern them out in strange ways,
but shortly after I started to get a little bit,
you know, adept with using that kind of code
to manipulate samples,
they came out with title MIDI,
so that allows you to use all of the sort of,
I don't know what would the word be like,
the parlance of title with sending MIDI signals,
so that opened up programming, strange stuff
with that code, both samples and MIDI,
and then also translating MIDI stuff to CV
with a Kenton module that I have,
and that sort of like those three things altogether
is a very weird, flexible, recursive,
you know, thing to employ,
so I was telling Nick on the way over here,
I'm really excited to finally start implementing
real time parallel, like execution of patterns,
some of it being MIDI, some of it being samples,
and just recording the final output,
versus making stuff, recording it,
editing it down and then bringing it
into the sample environment,
'cause there's benefits to both,
so what I really would like to get to
is a point where I can set up an environment of things
and it might be different per track or whatever, but,
- Sure.
- Just, you know, having like,
modulars going into audio mulch
and I'm controlling audio mulch with title,
and I'm also using samples in title,
and all this stuff is coexisting,
but it's all related and coming from the same,
like, plane of operation, so it's really,
there's a lot of possibilities there,
and it's pretty exciting,
and it kind of helps me get to a place where,
you know, I kind of have these ideas in my head
of things I would like to accomplish,
but I would never be able to do them
just doing step-based programming,
because it's just, you know,
you have to divide things and count stuff,
and when you have title, you're just saying,
like, this pattern is this,
and I want it to do this at this time,
and it just does the math for you,
and that makes it fast,
and you get the cool result,
and you can just do it and move on,
so I don't like belaboring over tracks,
it's really painful, and, you know,
my history has been to spend six months
making a three-minute track,
that gets old, so I like to move on to the next thing.
- What got you into modular?
Like, I'm always curious what the first thing
somebody saw that was like,
"Oh, I want to try that."
It was a maths for me in QMMG,
it was a very classic, like,
second wave, Euro-rack, like,
hmm, I gotta try that,
'cause I'll never afford to surge,
or, you know, that type of thing.
- I think, you know, I looked at the Muff's forum for a while,
and was just sort of like,
wow, that's a whole lot of things to think about,
and not really knowing, like,
how you would even use it,
just out of curiosity,
kind of dipping in with that for a while,
but I think, you know,
the first time I moved to Minneapolis,
and then that has Fox Zone music there,
so I was able to just physically walk into a place
where there's a ton of that stuff,
and I was fortunate enough to go there on a day
when Logan from Logaine was there,
and he was working with Eric at Fox Zone in some capacity,
and literally these guys spent, like,
three hours just taking me through the basics.
Like, you know, like, this is a potential customer,
and they spent that time, like, saying, like,
you know, I'm thinking, I'm kind of walking in there, like,
if I were to try to maybe buy some stuff,
what would I do, you know,
and they were really, really nice,
and spent that time doing that,
and made it a lot more approachable, I think,
than if I were to just kind of try to wing my way through it
by, like, buying stuff online or whatever.
- Yeah, yeah, it could be a costly trial and error.
- Yeah, and so that made it,
that made it a lot less intimidating, I think,
and so I bought some stuff and...
- What was your first one?
- I think I got a tip-top oscillator,
and a maths and a VCA.
I think I got a Pittsburgh filter too,
and then shortly after that, another oscillator,
and another filter, and...
- Then the wheels came off and you just couldn't stop.
- Yeah, you know, and I'm the kind of person that dives in,
and does a minimal amount of education possible,
so, you know, there's, of course, a fried module,
and totally my fault, you know,
that kind of learning process, so yeah.
But yeah, I got that stuff, and shortly,
this was before I'd come across titles,
so it didn't really, that didn't really come into play
until later, but I got the CV to MIDI right away,
'cause I wanted to be able to sequence with the,
you know, with the DAW, so...
- Hmm.
- Yeah, and I just kind of played that game of,
well, I'm just gonna get it this much,
and then that'll be, I'll stop,
and I'm beyond nine you at this point,
and I have a kind of like purposefully got a case
that's way too big, so it's like never gonna be full,
and it's still like one third empty, I think, so.
I kind of got over that module last after a year or so of that,
and now I'm more casual about, you know,
I have plenty of stuff to use,
and it's not like I'm dying to have like,
any specific thing, and so I can just kind of have fun
with it, use it, learn, try to get some depth
with the stuff that I do have, and...
- Yeah, that's the sweet spot, kinda.
- I totally still feel like an infant in terms of like,
the things I know, and I'm very like,
I try to approach it very, like, always with a blank slate,
like, I'll try to maybe read about a particular technique,
and then just do I have the stuff to do that,
and then try to implement it, and, you know,
at the same time, maybe produce something musically usable,
but yeah, I still feel very humbled by the amount of knowledge
that you can come across on the muff's form,
like, just the depth of that is astounding to me,
so I feel like this is gonna be something I can pursue
for probably the rest of my life,
and never really even feel like I'm like super good at,
you know, being a synthesis,
but I like having that open-ended element to it,
and it's just, I mean, there's so much stuff
you can do with it, there's so many modules,
but it's just mind-blowing, staggering amount of stuff
to check out and learn about,
so it's really fascinating to me.
- Yeah, growing all the time, too.
- Like, what was some of the things you've discovered
moving to modular that maybe you couldn't do
in other environments?
Like, what are some of the things that, like, you've learned,
or new tricks you've figured out?
- You know, just even what modulation is,
just understanding that at a root level,
I think, has been a mind-opening thing,
like, you know, so you have like envelopes
and stuff like that, but using them to do things
that, you know, fixed architecture since don't do,
and like, well, what if you do that to this?
And then it's like, well, that's awesome.
Why don't they have that?
I'm like, everything, you know?
So I can't think of anything specific, but yeah,
just the openness of it and the sort of like,
I mean, it's cool because it's like,
it's so flexible that you have plenty of room
to make crappy noises.
Like, it's totally up to you to shape it
into something useful or not, and I don't know.
I don't know if I'm answering your question or not, but--
- It doesn't matter.
It was not a great question.
Since the integration of a title in your setup,
do you find like you're kind of gearing your rig
towards a certain direction now,
where there might have been overlap with title?
Or do you think like the two are going hand in hand
pretty well with what you already have in your rig?
- I think they're going pretty well hand in hand,
and I think the stuff that I have right now
is pretty bread and butter kind of things,
and I really wanna continue to get stronger
with those more classic techniques.
Before I move on to the, like, I don't know what it would be
like the third wave, the crazy stuff, the weird, you know,
I mean, there's so many, I can't even think of them, but--
- So you're kind of using it mainly for like East Coast style
synthesis right now.
- Yeah.
- You got your envelope, your filter, your voice,
type of thing, okay.
- But I do like the make noise kind of weird,
you know, applying things to aspects
that you wouldn't think of.
You know, for an East Coast kind of style,
but I like to blend the two as well.
- Sure.
- I feel like I need to get stronger
on just the East Coast style first
before I plunge more into the crazier stuff,
but I know I'm gonna get there.
I mean, it's really enticing.
Modular has sort of opened me up to as well to like,
I've made so much music that's incredibly rigid
and step, you know, this stops here and this starts there,
and this is always in time with this, like that kind of thing.
I've made so much of that kind of music
that I'm really enticed by the floppy,
flexible quality of modular stuff, so.
- Getting off the grid.
- Yeah, yeah.
And I like combining the two, so it's really, you know,
you patch up the modular and like,
you're running Renee with an envelope or something,
so you're getting weird time
that doesn't really have a BPM or whatever.
And you know, like this sounds great,
I have no idea how I'm gonna use it,
how would this fit into like a step sequencer
and that kind of thing.
You know, I recorded all that stuff
'cause it was like, this sound is too good to just let it go.
But now actually with title, I'm able to bring that in
a lot more easily because of the way it works.
It doesn't like box you in so much,
so I like having this fleet free flowing weird
gelatinous thing right upside,
this really rigid like tight technical kind of thing.
And that's exciting to me.
So I guess in terms of timbers,
maybe I'm not so far out there yet,
but at least I'm moving toward like the not so skeletal,
hard, you know, one, two, three, four,
one, two, three, four, kind of sequencing stuff
with the modular itself, so.
- Are you sequencing a lot within your modular?
Is that like strictly title at this point or other like?
- I really, I like to do both actually.
I'm actually doing less of what I originally intended,
which was, you know, just one volt per octave,
like, you know, linear melodies and stuff like that.
I thought that's more what I was gonna use
with the MIDI to CV, but I found that I really want
to explore doing weirder things.
So for instance, the Kenton has four CV outs,
and so title can tell those CV outs to do LFOs or whatever.
I'm interested more, I'm more keen to like try putting
all those into a logic module and seeing what that spits out
and having a sequencer be driven by that,
rather than just, no, no, no, no, you know,
coming right out of the computer.
And so that's, it seems like you can just sort of try stuff
and things will come out that you would never actually
intentionally design that are way more interesting
than what you may try to intentionally design.
- Absolutely, yeah, I feel you.
- Yeah, I used to describe it to myself as like structured chaos,
you know what I mean?
Like when I was trying to get into,
when I was trying to break out of sequencing from my doll
and more into modular sequencing,
I wanted to find something that, you know,
it would align on the grid in some fashion,
but not necessarily be programmed to the grid, you know what I mean?
Like you said, like have, you know, a comparator generating gates
which would drive your sequencer, you know what I mean?
And just coming up with entirely new structures that, I mean,
there's definitely people out there that can think that up
in software, but I'm not one of those, you know what I mean?
Like the modular kind of brought that out of me easier.
I was able to figure out shit like that,
which I was struggling to do in software using like the doll
and things like that, you know?
But yeah, I feel you.
Do you have any sequencers like straight up
sequencers in your rig right now?
- I mostly just use the Renee.
- Gotcha.
- I like what it, you know, especially like putting weird stuff
into the clock and put that's, you know, like a square wave
that the width is being modulated or something,
so you get like bursts of notes rather than just one, two, three, four.
I need to, I've learned quite a lot from just using that sequencer,
but I know there's still more.
I've never even implemented it to do, but it's, that's the main one.
And then I kind of, sometimes, you know, you can use transposition
and cool ways with sequencers.
It's like, well, I'm using this $500 module to like make the note change.
Like every fourth thing, but, you know, or you can do it the other way too.
You can transpose it, but just having tools to do that stuff is cool
and it's interesting to see what happens even if you're only using like this,
you know, one-tenth of its power, but that doesn't mean next time you can't,
like, have that be the center of the patch and have it be doing like this crazy
octopus thing.
- So, sort of the opposite of that, what are some things that like you've got
or you've used that surprise you as far as like disappointments?
What's something you were like, this is going to be great, and then you started using it
and you're like, this isn't clicking with me for some reason.
- The one that comes to mind most rapidly is the Wogglebug.
I don't even know why I bought that thing.
Like, I got so excited for it, I think, and I was, you know,
maths was like, wow, and, you know, what was some of the, I know I've had a couple other,
well, like, Renee, and then I don't know, I think I was watching the James Sigler demo
of that or something, and I was like, oh, I can think of so many things going to do with this,
and then I got one, and I just tried and tried and tried and could not get it to do anything
I wanted it to do or anything random and cool, just, I mean, it didn't, that one surprised me,
like, I thought that that was going to, because I didn't have any, any sort of random source
in my rig at all, so, you know, I was like, well, I need this function, so I'm going to get it,
and then just, I had to get rid of it, it just enraged me.
(laughter)
- That's interesting, man.
I'm kind of like the total opposite.
Like, I bought a maths when they first came out, and I just never jived with it, like, really?
- Yeah, I would see Nick do, like, crazy shit with his, and I'm just like, I would play with one,
and I would just, you know, nothing would be coming out of it, like, that I was happy with,
I ended up selling it within, like, a week, and I had one of the Mark 1 waggle bugs,
and I loved it the shit, you know what I mean?
I used it all over some of the Prometheus stuff towards the end there.
It was, it was using it for, you know, as a sound source and control, and then I sold it at one point,
and now I have the new version, you know, the black panel, it's like slimmer, and I used the fuck out of that thing,
like, I don't know, and I still don't have a maths to this day, like, I see people have, like, three, four maths in their system,
and it's just like, I just don't get it, you know what I mean?
Like, I have not wrapped my head around that module yet.
- So listeners of the program, they can email Greg and yell at him about that.
It's at stumpsur@gmail.com, I'm gonna address it to Greg.
- You guys have to be Greg.
- Fuck maths.
(laughter)
- I used to have two, now I've won again, because two was a little too much, but...
- Pretty wide.
- Yeah, it's a, yeah, I wanted a little more variety, but I would never sell it,
but it's still one of my favorites, but...
- It's personal.
- To each their own, and that's why we have all these different choices.
- Yeah, and you know, I've talked about things that I loved in even our last podcast that I've now sold.
- Really?
- It's like, I don't know, next week, you never know, man.
- Yeah.
- So what are some of the things that you'll, you know, they can take out of your cold, dead hand,
that you, you know, modules come and go, but this is gonna be an eriggy thing forever.
I don't even know if I have something like that.
I guess maybe I'm thinking of sound source ones.
You know, I just use a pair of the Tip Top Z3000s, and I have the old version of the PDO,
but I still need to dig in with that one a bit more.
I don't think I have any super allegiance to any of those things I have.
They're all kind of potentially able to be sold, but...
- Yeah, it's kind of like what I got now is, you know, I'm still learning it,
so I'm not really bored with any of the things, but I don't have any super strong, like,
do or die pieces.
That spring to my, I guess I don't have any, because nothing's springing to my, so...
Are you like a super filter like, "Oh, I love filters," or is it more just like,
"Yeah, I got a filter because I need it."
- Type of thing. - I mean, I have four.
- There you go. - Probably too many.
- Probably too many. - Yeah.
- And those are just like... - Nope.
- Yeah, and you know, it's always like thinking about...
Not, you know, I don't need to buy a slew. I have four filters.
You know, that kind of thing. I kind of forget about that, but...
Yeah. I don't know. I like...
I'm starting to work with percussion, but it's not really going that well yet,
but that's kind of something I'm more interested in checking out, but, again,
space and, you know, I don't know.
I like things that double as other things as much as possible.
So you're saying you're talking about like drum modules in particular,
or making drum sounds out of a sound source, an envelope, and a VCA, or both.
Okay. Which ones have you tried?
Like, which drum modules have you tried so far and enjoyed?
I only have one, and I recently got it. It's the...
Is it neuron audio damage?
Oh, the 8HP drum.
- See, there was the wider one that came out. - It's...
No, that's the boomchack is the wide one.
- And then there's the... - The neuron's the FM one, right?
- That one. - Okay.
- And then there's the one. - Yeah, the boomchacks, like, I think more like analog style
and the neuron's more FM.
I got that one, and so far I'm not able to do anything with it,
but I haven't spent that much time with it either.
I feel like that was kind of like the woggle-bogg.
Like, I'm like, "Holy smokes." And like, I want that.
So I just straight up bought it, which I usually just try to find stuff you used.
- Yeah. - But I just... I was like, "I definitely want that."
So I got it, and then I just can't seem to get it to do what I want,
which is odd, but...
I'm also sort of open to the idea of this could be something useful and cool
that you didn't think you would use it in a certain way.
So I'm kind of thinking about why separate percussion and non-percussion sounds
and maybe even why make it a bass sound or a lead sound or a pad sound.
Just kind of making patches and whatever they are is what they are.
So if it has a little bit of this percussion sound in it or whatever,
it's just a piece of a thing and just trying to be more...
I'm trying to give it another chance and see if I can work it in somehow.
But as far as just straight up drum beats,
I've got a couple oscillators and a couple of filters and envelopes.
You sort of run out pretty quick if you're trying to build an entire drum kit.
So it's just an experiment to see what I can make out of it.
And it doesn't have to be the entire thing of percussion.
It can be supplemental to samples or whatever else.
So that's kind of the newest thing I've been working on.
It's kind of not really going that great, but it's all fumbling in baby steps all the time.
So whatever.
Do anything with breaks still when it comes to percussion?
Or I guess I should say for your drum sounds,
are you still using sample bass but synthesis for almost everything else?
Or do you just not really differentiate anymore?
You're saying you just kind of make patches and if it has percussion elements,
then you just roll with that.
I kind of just grabbed from everywhere.
I was really heavily reliant on using natural drum sounds in the past,
but trying to mangle them into things that don't sound like that.
I've opened more to non-natural sounds,
especially like deep kick drums and stuff.
I always kind of shied away from that in the past.
I don't really know why, but after a while it just becomes like,
"Well, there's more variety, so let's have that."
Like, I always want more, so of course more is always better.
But yeah, I'm interested in trying to widen that out
and actually using title pieces of break beats and so forth
isn't really that ideal.
It's kind of better to use single shots.
So I kind of want to get into seeing how I can combine single shots
with modular sounds and everything's kind of more like just one sound
per trigger kind of deal.
I need to also explore the Nord modular for percussion,
because there's a lot there, and that's probably my most neglected item
that I have.
It's sort of like so amazing, but so wide that you can't,
I don't know, it's sort of too big or something,
sort of intimidating.
I could do anything.
I'll choose nothing.
Do you have the first or the GT with the first one?
I have the mini or the micro.
Micro, yeah.
I used that one of those.
I kind of missed that thing.
Yeah, it's pretty cool.
What's your setup for live performance now?
Do you bring the modular out at all, or is that mostly studio only?
I have never taken the modular anywhere.
The cases that I have are not at all portable.
They're incredibly unattractive items that, you know,
did you make them?
I didn't make them, but like the big black one that I have is
really supposed to be for a mixer.
It's like the big carpeted box.
Oh, nice.
So like one of those awful looking, but really ergonomic.
Hey, so I dig that.
I don't feel like I would bring that stuff around just because I don't think it would work.
I can't change the sounds fast enough, and you know,
I have to do quite a lot of noodling to get somewhere with sounds.
And I just, it just seems like not worth it.
So this will be my third performance with title.
So I haven't really even done that that much, and I'm not really sure where I'm going with that.
So that's going to be entirely sample based.
I considered bringing the micro modular and running title MIDI with that, but it just
became too many things to juggle.
And when it's a lot of text on the screen, it just becomes like,
oh my God, what is happening?
I just wanted to pair it down and try to focus on having it sound the best that it can.
So yeah, I don't think I'm going to do that, but that could change.
Scott's playing at Wood Street Gallery tonight, which is a gallery downtown that actually has a
Rio JK to exhibit on the floor underneath too.
So we were checking that out a little before we came over here to record this.
Kevin Bednar, who is Bednar, and Pittsburgh has done title live coding stuff in the past,
and he's projected his screen on to the behind the meringue.
Have you done that or are you planning on doing that?
Because it's such an interesting thing, like you're not just someone standing there.
Like, if we can't see that conceptually, like, oh, I know that that's really cool,
but once it's up there, you're like, oh, that's just hypnotic to watch.
Yeah.
Every time I've done a title performance, it's been projected.
That's cool.
There may be some disappointment because I'm not really going to be manipulating the code that much
because I'm just playing not that good at it yet.
It's really not something that I've developed a skill in in terms of improvising and making
the code change in real time.
I will do a completely free form improvisation at the end, I think, but in terms of the length
of the set, it's going to be more like straightforward use of the code that already exists because
it's pretty complicated.
And just to even toy with it a little bit, it makes it fall apart sometimes.
We have seen that because we've seen Kevin doing something and it's just like, air, air,
air, like just a screen just fills it red, which is really cool to see.
But like, I can imagine like just watching the calamity unfold.
Trying to troubleshoot code while you're like in front of a group of people.
Not a fun experience.
Yeah.
Yeah, just reminded me, I do love watching like the projection of that.
You know, I mean, even if there's not too much manipulation going on, like the first time
I watched Kevin's use title, it just reminded me of like the year 2001 when I had first
seen like Zannoff to Khan and people like Dave and everyone doing stuff live.
And you know, I was only experimenting with shit in my bedroom at that point.
I'd never really conceived of how this could be done live, you know what I mean?
And I would see like Ryan with his two desktop computers and a DJ mixer and like, you know,
the dual and FL studio and all this shit going on in the screen.
I'm just like, I have no fucking idea what I'm looking at.
You know what I mean?
When I'd peep his screen, but I was like, it's cool to see.
Like, you don't see that too much these days.
You know what I mean?
Like, you have no idea what's happening behind the scenes on somebody's laptop.
Like, I have no problems with someone doing a laptop performance.
You know what I mean?
I know some people do.
And I think having that projection helps those people that are still kind of like hesitant
to like, you know, give credit to a laptop performer and they're like, oh, you know,
they're just pushing a button.
Right.
They're not just pushing play.
There's something going on.
They're not just checking their email.
Right.
There's something actually happening there.
You know, it's fucking cool to see, you know, that that window into what is happening,
no matter what it is, or even see it air out, you know what I mean?
Like, I remember a few times, you know, things would crash like at hacker fest and things
like that.
I mean, computer crashes going on gaps in the performances, but, you know, it added to the,
I don't know, the magic of it.
Yeah, exactly.
It's like, this really is on the cost of falling apart.
Right.
I was like, these guys are taking risks, you know what I mean?
They're not just bouncing out.
They're set to a CD and pushing play.
Like they're, you know, it's risky business.
And it was really interesting to see that blew my mind in 2001 and, you know, yeah,
changed the way I thought about everything.
I haven't really been the same sense, you know what I mean?
So I think it's cool that, you know, people like you and Kevin utilizing title, I think,
will maybe inspire people who, you know, the next generation of people who want to get
in electronic music and, you know, want to utilize a laptop and get crazy with it and
not just generate like, you know, house music or something.
You know what I mean?
Like, this is, I think this is like a interesting doorway for people like that who have not
seen it before.
Yeah, I definitely had that experience, what you're talking about when I first saw title
used, which was by a guy named Mike that lives in the Minneapolis area.
He produces under the name kindome, kindome.
I always thought it was kindome, but he says kindome.
He's like an anagram of his name.
So I saw him perform with it and he's quite masterful at the improvisational element.
And yeah, because, you know, I heard about it.
I heard about, you know, he was actually on NPR, Minnesota Public Radio, short piece talking
about this because at that point he was kind of involved in like, code camp stuff for kids
and like trying to engage like young people around doing coding and stuff and his thing
was using this music thing.
So he was on for that and I had heard about that and I listened to it and I thought, well,
it's probably really dumb.
That's probably really lame.
And I checked it out anyway and I was really impressed.
So I emailed him and he was playing soon.
So I went to go see him and then I was like, okay, I'm literally only a person watching
it, but I mean, I was floored.
I was like, dude, you have to help me figure out how to do this because I want to do this.
And seeing the seeing the text on the screen and not having any clue what any of that stuff
means, but listening and having that feedback and looking at it and seeing it change and
then executing it and hearing it change, even just after that first observation of that
performance, I kind of had an idea of what was going on.
It was like, it seemed approach, it seems like so futuristic and alien, but also very
approachable.
And fortunately, he's a nice enough dude to like really spend some time helping me get
up and running with that.
And yeah, it's refreshed my enthusiasm for making music potentially more than it even
was when I first started.
It's like that exciting to me.
I cannot.
Like, I will sit and write code with title over hours on end and not get tired of it
because it's just so fascinating and flexible and fun.
And you'll be able to see that tonight, even if I'm not manipulating code that much.
I think the code will probably be far more dense than what you may have seen Kevin do.
And then it has a lot of like cheater notes and stuff with weird names.
I like code comments.
Yeah.
That's trying to say that shit.
It's totally necessary.
It's just it's literally like a huge, long page of just blocks and blocks and blocks
of code.
Plus it's not it doesn't have indentation like like a C++ or Java.
It can if you want it to.
I've never seen that before.
It can if you wanted to.
I didn't ever learn.
I never learned anything the right way.
So it doesn't.
Mine doesn't.
And it's probably harder to look at for that reason.
But yeah, it's not.
It looks like a mess.
Actually, I would go back to like you were talking about like can dumb.
I've never actually seen it in perform, but I've only heard recordings of it.
So even without seeing that the that element of the real time manipulation, all the changes
he's doing, sonically, it's still also super interesting.
The recording of yours.
I think I've only heard one of your recordings.
Is there only one recording of a performance?
Yeah, performance.
Yeah, there was one I put out on SoundCloud for a while.
Likewise, it sounded amazing.
But even without seeing all of that cool stuff with it.
Yeah.
And yeah, I think the having a good outcome that an interesting pleasing musical outcome
is always the bottom line.
And it helps you get to really strange conclusions.
It just timing is so easy to be so flexible with and complex with, but you can also be
really straight with it too.
And there's a you can swap between the two and I mean, like the things you can do with
time signatures.
It's just great.
I love it.
How much like I'm curious, how would you do like a like a recursive kind of rhythm that's
like, you know, like an effects balancing ball thing?
Is that like something that you can conceptualize in your head, how you would do it in there?
That's like a I don't know how that would like work.
Yeah, you could because you can, you know, you can just make a pattern and have it's you
can have a pattern that just has the one sound, but then you can say every other or every
next pattern, you can say increase the density of that pattern by decimal points.
So you could say you could create a like a piece of arithmetic that says every time next
time a little bit faster.
Okay, like there's ways to do that.
Yeah, do you find like, Oh, I want to kind of get better at math now that you've like
got in the title?
No, okay.
I was playing with some generative graphics stuff the other night like stupid JavaScript
and HTML5 stuff and I was like, Oh, I hit this wall where it's like, I better learn
a lot like I better get much better at algebra.
And I was kind of like, Oh, fuck this.
Fortunately with title, there's a there.
It's kind of sprung out of an academic place.
So there's all these, Oh, let's be mean and call them like code goons or something.
I don't know.
They're just so into like, look how elegantly I'd made this weird thing.
And then they don't want to use it for anything, but those guys are willing to share that stuff
with you.
So, you know, I was asking this one guy in particular, I won't say what he is, but you
know, he's like, you just call him a good.
He's kind of always got, he's kind of always got a solution to any kind of question.
Like, how would you do this if you wanted to be like, well, you do this.
And I'm like, could you provide an example?
And then all you got, if you got that example, then you can twist that and change the values
and stuff and make it do all kinds and naughty stuff.
So there's a bunch of custom stuff I've incorporated into the back end of title for my particular
machine that is of that ilk.
And there's like, you know, it's just about how cleverly can you code it?
Like if you really know the nuts and bolts, but if you don't, if you just have the example
and you have it in there, you can turn a huge function into a single word.
So like every three do this thing.
And it's your specific code that you made and it's like, it's great.
I want to be able to like make an artistic effect in the end of my care at that point.
That's when I realized when I got like max for live or whatever, max MSP, it's like,
I like using people's stuff, but I have no interest in digging into that or reactor or
anything.
Like the modular is kind of how I experiment like that because that's just more fun and
readily understood by me.
I was like a definitely deaf on programmer for years.
You know, I was quote unquote programmer.
I was a good googler and theft straight up.
Just end on me being a thief and a podcast.
[laughter]
(music)